الحمد بالله رب العالمين
الرحمن الرحيم
مالك يوم الدين
إياك نعبد وإياك نستعيم
اهدن الصراق المستقيم
صراق الذين أنعنت عليهم
غير المرضوب عليهم
السلام عليكم و رحمة الله و بركاته
بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم
الحمد لله رب العالمين و بهم نستعين
و نصلي و نسلم على أفضل الخلق أجمعين
نبينا محمد و على آله و صحبه و التابعين
و من تبعهم بإحسان إلى يوم الدين و بعد
We commence as always by praising Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
sending complete blessings and salutations upon the masterpiece
محمد ابن عبد الله
May Allah's peace and blessings be upon him, his entire household
and all his companions
and may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless them all
and may he bless every single one of us
and grant us goodness
Beloved brothers and sisters in Islam
It is important that before we commence
we make mention of a few points
regarding the seerah or the life of Rasulullah صلى الله عليه وسلم
There are many books that have been compiled
about the life of Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم
Some of them are in a story form
and some of them are in narration form
Some of them have made mention of just a story
so from the beginning to the end
according to some chronological order
the story is mentioned so people can read it
and they can learn a lesson from it and understand it
But if we were to look deeper
we would find that those who have written it in story form
they have gathered it from somewhere
where narrations have been made mention of
Some of these narrations are made mention of
by companions of Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم
and some of them by historians
Now you and I know that in Islam
whenever we want to utter something
we need to ensure that we have a chain of narrators
going back to the source of the story
to Rasulullah صلى الله عليه وسلم
or to the one whom it had happened to
So we will find exactly how it happened
If there is a problem in the chain of narrators
nowadays it is very very easy to tell
this is a weak narration and that is a correct narration
authentic narration and so on
because we have all the data in a small little chip
or in a disk or on a website
if we would know how to search
we would be able to look if someone is telling a lie or not
because it's quite easy to find out
that this person is claiming to have heard from someone
who died before they were born
so that's a lie
or this person is claiming to have heard from someone
who never ever visited them and they did not visit them
so you would know there is a problem there
or there is a person who is narrating
and he is saying that I heard from so and so
but he was known amongst his people as a liar
in that particular case we cannot base our deen on that
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness
So what I have tried to do is
to make mention of that which is authentic
and as you know as days pass
we authenticate even more
and if it is found that we have also said something
which is not authentic
then we would revise it to excuse ourselves
to say this is not authentic
or we found that this was not correct and so on
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless us
The reason I say this
Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam
is the highest of creation
We don't doubt that
He is the most blessed
He is the most honoured
He was loved and favoured by Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala the most
but he is still a creature of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
the highest of all creatures
We know he has the highest status
with the truth that we know about him
So why should we lie?
In order to raise his status
Do you think lies is going to make him any more important?
When he is already the most important?
So there is no point to lie
Sometimes people have a disease
When we tell them this is wrong
They automatically start getting excited and angry
To say no, no, no
You have blasphemed and you have done this
No, that's not the case
Nobody is denying that he is the highest
Nobody is denying his status
Nobody is denying that Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala has favoured him
But all we are saying is
This is an authentic narration
It has been made mention of
And what others are making mention of
Is either fabricated or is not as authentic
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless us
Remember the winner is he who follows that example
The winner is not he who barks all day and night
The winner is the one who follows the example
You know they say
Put your money where your mouth is
Allahu Akbar
Which means you want to talk big
Put it, let's see
May Allah protect us
May we not be from amongst those who pay lip service
Without following his example
Without emanating what he has come with
May we not be from amongst those who claim to be his followers yet
We don't read Salah
We have bad habits of adultery, fornication, gambling, smoking and so on
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us from such habits
I see the brothers are frowning at me when I said smoking
Don't we agree it's a bad habit?
Come on
Month of Ramadan
Can't we give up one major bad habit of ours every Ramadan?
Wallahi we would be from amongst those who've given up
30, 40 bad habits by now
If we just gave up one major habit every Ramadan
When the doctor tells you
Listen, you've got to give up smoking
Because if not this will happen, that will happen
We throw it out
We know it's a bad habit
We're not talking about haram and halal and makruh and so on
We're talking of whether it's a good habit or not
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala empower us
To understand that following the example of Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
Requires willpower, it requires iman
It requires a genuine iman
And the understanding of the seerah of Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam
So I'd like to start off by saying that
It was brought to my notice that yesterday and perhaps previously
On some occasions instead of saying 5 years from the prophethood
I said 5 years of hijra
And I'm sure you would have picked that up
Like when I made mention of the marriage of Sauda binti Zam'ah
Radhiallahu anha
By mistake I said 10th Hijri
And I said that's the same year that Khadija binti Khuwalid
Radhiallahu anha passed away
Well you would understand that that was 10 years from prophethood
Because hijra had not yet taken place
That was just a slip of the tongue
I thought it was only correct for me to correct that
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness
We had also made mention of the way Sa'd ibn Mu'adh
One of the leaders of Aws had accepted Islam
When Mus'ab ibn Umayr was there with As'ad ibn Zurara
Radhiallahu anhum
And we made mention of how Usayid ibn Hudayr
Radhiallahu anhu had gone up to them trying to stop them
And when Mus'ab ibn Umayr spoke to him
He accepted Islam
Moments later the same happened with Sa'd ibn Mu'adh
There is a point of detail that is important for me to mention
And that is
When Sa'd ibn Mu'adh accepted Islam
He got up to his clan
Who were they?
They were known as Banu Abdul Ashhal
He got up to them and he said
Oh Banu Abdul Ashhal
I am not going to speak to any one of you
Neither male nor female
Until you accept this man as a messenger
They all accepted without exception
Subhanallah
So this shows when the chief accepts
The rest of them follow
This was Sa'd ibn Mu'adh radhiallahu anhu
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us a lesson from his entire life
We will come back to this man insha'Allah
When we make mention of the wars
That took place at the time of Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam
Then there is an important story that we touched on
And I think we need to mention a little bit of detail
The marriage of Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam
To Aisha radhiallahu anha
Khawla binti Hakim radhiallahu anha
Had made mention to Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
Of marrying Sawda binti Zam'a
And she also made mention of marrying Aisha
The daughter of your best friend or messenger sallallahu alaihi wasallam
So she went to Um Ruman
Who was the wife of Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radhiallahu anhu
Khawla binti Hakim went to her and made the suggestion
She spoke to Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radhiallahu anhu
And they agreed, subhanallah, they were happy
They were happy although initially Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radhiallahu anhu
Made mention of a point
He said when this girl was young
I had promised her to Jubair ibn al-Mut'im ibn Adi
And this man is still a mushrik, let me go to them and see
When he went to Al-Mut'im ibn Adi, the father of Jubair
And spoke to him and his wife
The wife quickly uttered words
That my son is not going to leave the religion of his forefathers
In order to marry your daughter
And from this Abu Bakr radhiallahu anhu was quite delighted
Because obviously as we said it served his purpose
So he went away and basically the engagement was broken
So she was more or less fixed to someone
And as we said up to today
There are people who fix up their little children in marriage
From a very young age
I'm sure you have come across some of these incidents
Perhaps the new generation might not have heard about it
Ask your parents, they will tell you it's true
And sometimes nowadays people mention it jokingly
Before it was serious
If they had said this, that's it
When you grow old, you know what happens?
You got to get married exactly where your parents wanted
You had no say in it
Unless you rejected
But you could not come and say no, no, no
I want to get married there
You had to get married where they wanted
If not, they would choose another place for you
If not, they would choose a third place for you
And it was always them who chose
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us the understanding
May He make us understand also the happiness of our parents
And at the same time may He make us parents
Who also look at the happiness of our own children
Because wallahi, it is a give and take
In the sense that we need to understand what Allah wants
And we need to understand what is good for us
If parents are wrong, they would be wrong
And if children are wrong, they would be wrong
Because what is right is adopting
The Sunnah of Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
So Aisha radiallahu anha
She was married to Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
When she was very young
Narrations make mention of the age of 6
And some make mention of the age of 7
And this means that the aqid
Or the solemnization of the nikah was done
But they did not live together
She was still in the house of her father
Until after they got to Madina Munawwarah
And thereafter after some time
They lived together
But this point was very important
Because a lot of people question
The age of Aisha radiallahu anha
How can this be?
And how bad is the messenger?
Astaghfirullah, a'udhu billah
How bad would he have been
In order to have done this?
Wallahi, there is nothing bad about it
It was the norm of the time
And at the same time
It was more of what we would term today
We nowadays term an engagement
As people having been fixed
They are fixed together
This, the nikah was done
We have a lesson to learn from it
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala make us those
Who do not have prolonged engagements
But rather those who can get the nikah done
As soon as possible
And thereafter get together
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us
Happiness in our homes
We also spoke about the first muhajir
The first person who made hijrah
For the sake of Allah to Madina Munawwarah
The story of Abu Salama and Umm Salama
And Umm Salama, may Allah be pleased with her
Hind bint, Abu Umayyah
According to the narrations
That was her name
And later on
She was married to Muhammad SAW
When her husband passed away
She endured a lot
As we mentioned
She was separated from her husband
As well as from her little child
And only after a year
Or a little bit more than a year
Did she become united once again with them
And was she permitted to go back
Or to go to Madina Munawwarah
Then we have the first muhajireen
Also we must make mention of their names
Mus'ab bint Umayyah r.a
He had already gone
After the first akabah
The first pledge of akabah
He had gone to Madina Munawwarah
In order to teach them the deen
And we said that he had come back
To Makkah al-Mukarramah
With the news of the people of Madina
And so on to Muhammad SAW
From amongst the early muhajireen
Abdullah bint Umm Maktoom
Bilal bint Rabah r.a
These people went after Muhammad SAW
Announced to them
That you can now proceed to Madina Munawwarah
We are definitely going in that direction
The question arises
Why didn't Muhammad SAW lead the way?
Look at it
Ironically today
When there is a country under threat
Or leaders are in trouble
They are the first ones who go
And the people are made to suffer
They abscond and they run away
With the messenger
Sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
I need to make mention
It was the other way round
He made sure everyone went
He waited for the permission of Allah
For him to go personally
So Allah had granted permission
For the companions to leave
But not for him
Subhanallah
And this is why
The sahabah r.a
Make mention of a powerful fact
Regarding war
They knew that Muhammad SAW
Peace be upon him
Is protected by Allah
Subhanahu wa ta'ala
So what they used to say
Whenever there was a war
And it became hot
You know heated
Very tense
We all went behind Muhammad SAW
He was in the front
Imagine
This was the messenger
Because they knew
We have to be behind him
We will be protected here
Today it's the other way round
The leaders, you don't see them
They get away
And thousands
And hundreds of thousands
Of their people die
And are killed
And they are still having
A fat life
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Protect us all
So Muhammad SAW
Saw his companions leaving
From amongst them was Sa'd
Ibn Abi Waqqas r.a
Ammar ibn Yasir
Omar ibn Al-Khattab r.a
Left with quite a few men
According to some narration
He had left with a few people
And there is a narration
As we said
We like to authenticate
There is a narration that says
That he stood in Quraish
And he made an announcement
In Quraish
See the rest of the people
Were going ducking and diving
Quraish was blocking some of them
Stealing the wealth of some of them
Blocking, kidnapping some of them
And Quraish was hassling them
It is narrated in one narration
That Omar ibn Al-Khattab r.a
Who got up and made an announcement
Saying that whoever wants
Their children to be orphaned
Or their wives to be widowed
I'll see you in that place there
In the valley
Come and try
See what you want to do
Look at the words
However
That narration
The chain of it
For your information
Is not authentic
See we make mention of it
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Grant us goodness
He was a powerful man
But there is an authentic narration
Which is narrated in Sahih Muslim
And various other books
That make mention of
In fact ibn Kathir
Has made mention of it as well
In his tafsir
With an isna
The chain that is acceptable
He says Omar ibn Al-Khattab r.a
When he wanted to make hijrah
They were persecuting
The people severely
The people of Quraish
Had got together
And they were persecuting
In a very systematic way
Blocking, stopping
Stealing the wealth off
And somehow trying to stop them
And so on
Kidnapping
So him and two of his friends
Which made three of them
It was Omar ibn Al-Khattab r.a
Ayyash ibn Abi Rabi'ah
And Hisham ibn Al-Aas
These were three people
They had got together
And they decided
Look we're going to collect
Our provisions
And we are going to leave
At a specific time
Let's meet at that particular time
At this particular place
Just on the outskirts of Makkah
And whoever from amongst us
Does not come
It means that that particular person
Has been held back by Quraish
The rest of us will carry on
So at the particular time
Omar ibn Al-Khattab r.a
Arrived there
Ayyash ibn Abi Rabi'ah
He arrived there as well
But the third one
Hisham ibn Al-Aas did not arrive
When he did not arrive
The two understood
That you know what
We need to make tracks
And we need to get going
So the two of them got going
And they arrived in Madinah Munawarah
It is reported that
When they got to Quba
And that's where
The base of the Muhajireen
Had been so far
The bulk of them
A lot of them
Abu Jahl
And Al-Harith ibn Hisham
From Quraish
Had gone all the way
To Madinah Munawarah
Imagine
And this is a correct
Authentic narration
They went because
Ayyash ibn Abi Rabi'ah
Was a man whom
They didn't want to lose
So they spoke to him
In Quba
And they had said
You know what
Your mother has promised
That she will not eat
And she will not do this
And do that
Until she sees you
So you better come back
So he felt it
Because he was quite close
To his mother
Omar ibn Al-Khattab r.a
Says they are lying
They just want to get you
Kidnap you
And sort you out
He says no, no
My mother
Omar ibn Al-Khattab r.a
Says look
I am telling you
These people are liars
They have come
To block you
And to disturb you
And to remove you
From the deen
That you have now followed
So he said no
Insha'Allah
I'll go
I'll sort my things out
I've got money with someone
And I will come back
Very soon
So Omar ibn Al-Khattab r.a
Gave him the animal
And said look
This animal is faster
Quicker and better
Than yours
Take this and go
So when he went
To the road
And they were at a certain place
Abu Jahl
And his friend
Al-Harith ibn Hisham
They told him
Look you know
Our camel
There is a problem here
With it
So why don't you stop
And let me ride on yours
When he stopped
Got down
They kidnapped him
Tied him
Put him onto the back
Of the camel
Took him to Makkah al-Mukarramah
And they kept him
In that particular place
They suffocated him
At the same time
They punished him
Penalized him
Until news got around
That this man has left
His faith
News went to
Madinah Munawwara
That this man has now
Returned to the religion of
The forefathers
Shirk and polytheism
And so on
And the same news
Arrived about
The third person
Who was supposed to have
Joined Umar ibn al-Khattab
And Ayyash ibn Abi Rabi'a
And his name was
Hisham ibn al-'As
So news had got to them
That these two
Had reneged from Islam
And turned away
Later on
When Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
Had come
Verses were revealed
Qul ya ibaadiya
Allatheena asrafoo
Ala anfusihim
La taqnatoo
Min rahmatillah
Inna Allah
Yaghfiru al-dhunub
Jami'a
Inna huwa al-ghfuru
Al-rahim
Wa aneebu
Ila rabbikum
Wa aslimu lahu min qabli
An ya'tiyakumu al-'alabu
Thumma la tunsaron
Say, O Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
All my worshipers
Meaning all worshipers
Of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Who have transgressed
Against themselves
Never lose hope
In the mercy of Allah
Subhanahu wa ta'ala
For indeed
He forgives all sins
He is most forgiving
Most merciful
Turn to him before it is too late
Before a day comes to you of punishment
And then you will not be helped
So Umar ibn Al-Khattab radiallahu anhu
Wrote these verses
And sent them to his two friends
Hisham ibn Al-Aas
And Ayyash ibn Abi Rabi'ah
And Hisham makes mention of how
When he read it
He knew that this is revealed because of me
He was pacing by the Tua
A name of a place close to
Makkat al-Mukarrama
And he was pacing up and down
And he knew this was for him
And after some time
They had been released
And they went to Medina al-Munawwara
At a certain stage
So this was also part of the suffering
Of some of those who had intended
To engage in Hijra
There was one who engaged also
Whom we need to mention his name
Hamza ibn Abdul Muttalib
Remember the powerful man
The powerful man
The uncle of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
Believe me they all made Hijra
Instructed by Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
To leave and the bulk of them left
Makkah started becoming quiet
It started becoming quiet
And the Mushriks became very eerie
As we will see in a few moments
But there was one man who wanted to make Hijra
And the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam
Stopped him
Who was that?
Abu Bakr al-Siddiq radiallahu anhu
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam says
Don't make haste
Oh Abu Bakr
In going for the Hijra
And Abu Bakr radiallahu anhu
Understood that this means
Perhaps he would then go with
Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
The day he left
Also Ali ibn Abi Talib radiallahu anhu
Who was much younger than them
Was also from amongst those who were instructed to stay
And the reasons were many
One of them was
Revelation from Allah sallallahu alayhi wasallam
Another was
That Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wasallam
He had a strange relation
With the Mushriks of Quraysh
In that
They didn't agree with his message
But they trusted him the most
All of them who had anything valuable
Who wanted it for safe keeping
Went to Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
Even though they were at loggerheads with him
And they used to say
You know you're a trustworthy man
Just keep this
How many of us
Even enemy had to come to us
And we had some of his wealth
Oh he came and said
You know what
I just want to entrust you with this
One million rands
Just hold it for me
What would happen
I think before we know it
As we're counting it
It will become nine hundred thousand
Allah protect us
And we count it again
It becomes eight hundred thousand
That's the famous one
Mashallah
May Allah sallallahu alayhi wasallam protect us
Look at Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
What an honest upright man
That even his own enemies
Bore witness that he was honest
And this is why he said to them
Oh my people
Do you think I would lie to you
If I were to lie
I wouldn't ever lie about
What I'm just telling you now
Subhanallah
May Allah sallallahu alayhi wasallam protect us all
And grant us goodness
So Ali radiallahu anhu as well
He had stayed behind
Now the mushriks of Quraish
As I said they became very wary
Of the situation
And they were pacing up and down
They were very very unsettled
Because they were faced with a problem
What was the problem
They had a meeting in a place
Known as Darul Nadwa
Darul Nadwa was this place
Where all their planning
And plotting used to happen
Quraish, whatever big decisions
They wanted to arrive at
Were all made in Darul Nadwa
It was the house of Qusay Ibn-ul-Kilal
He was one of the members of Quraish
And at his house
They called it Darul Nadwa
They got together in order to decide
What should we do with this Muhammad Ibn Abdullah
Sallallahu alayhi wasallam
So some of them said
Let us confine him
And keep him, kidnap him
And seal him completely
So no one can come
And no one can go
And no one will know where he is
That was one plan
The next plan they said
Others said no no no
We cannot do that
The reason is if we confine him
Now he has followers in Yathrib
Which is Madinah Munawwara
And most of his companions are there
They will prepare an army
And come to release him from kidnap
So there's no point in kidnapping him
Now that plan also failed
From themselves
They disagreed with it
After that they said okay
Let's kick him out
Let's boot him out of this place
No problem, allow him to leave
And the other said
How can you let him leave?
If he leaves
He's going to go to Madinah Munawwara
He's going to become powerful
People who listen to his words
Are all accepting
Everybody is accepting
And the numbers are only growing
They are not diminishing
So they will prepare an army
In a short time
And they will come to attack us
How can we let him go?
So they said no
Don't let him go
Okay, that's plan B
It failed itself
Because they found fault in it
Plan C
Let us just kill him
Now if we kill him
His followers will come
And they will still come and attack us
But this perhaps might be a good idea
If we think of how to do it
So how did they want to do it?
They said look
This Quraysh is made up of so many
Different tribes
Different little clans
So we have Banu Hashim
Banu this, Banu that
Banu Abdi Manaf and so on
He is from Banu Abdi Manaf
If we were to kill him
Banu Abdi Manaf can come
And wage war against the killers
But if there are so many killers
One from every tribe
Then this Banu Abdi Manaf
Will never be able to come out
And fight everyone
They can't fight the whole of Quraysh
So what happened is
Subhanallah, they decided
Okay, what we do is tomorrow
Tonight we will send one strong man
From every single clan of ours
And we'll encircle his home
And then what will happen is
As he emerges from his house
In the morning
We whack him altogether
And who will be to blame?
The whole lot
So one from every single tribe
And Banu Abdi Manaf
Will not be able to avenge or retaliate
They will have to accept
Some blood money
And the blood money will be very little
Because we are going to divide it
Amongst all of us here
So that's how they planned to kill him
Sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Allah informed him of everything
He knew what was exactly planned
And you see the time when
He told Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radiallahu anhu
Not to make haste
At that time
Abu Bakr was very intelligent
He immediately purchased two camels
And he made sure he fed them well
So that they would be strong
For a long journey
Look at the intelligence of the man
Subhanallah
He started preparing for the journey
This was before all this
When the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Had told him
Don't make haste
He understood
He already purchased the animals
And started preparing it
Now on that day
Suddenly
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Who does not normally come out
During the daylight
To visit people
He visited Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radiallahu anhu
In his home
In the heat of the afternoon
The heat of the afternoon
And he was covered
And he was walking quick
He knocked on the door
It opened
Oh, it's Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Aisha radiallahu anhu says
We saw him come in
And when he came in
Obviously this was his wife
But they had not yet lived together
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Asked for Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radiallahu anhu
Welcomed him and sat down
And the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam says
Whoever is in this home
Tell them to leave
Because there was something important to discuss
So Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radiallahu anhu says
There are none other than my own family
My own daughters
No one else
So then he spoke immediately
Few words
He says look
Allah has given me permission to leave
Subhanallah
So this was what they were waiting for
Permission to leave
Without permission
They were not allowed to leave
Now this was in the month of Safar
Towards the end of Safar
It is reported the 27th of Safar
Somewhere near the end of Safar
And Allah had instructed me to leave
Most of the companions had already gone
So what I need you to do
Abu Bakr is the following
We will meet at this particular cave
We will meet at a specific place
And that is where the two of us will get together
Or better still
According to some narrations
I will come to you by night
And the two of us will get together
And we will leave
We will go to a cave
And spend some time in the cave
Right on the outskirts of Makkah
Because as soon as Quraysh knows
That we have left
They are going to send little armies
And little groups of people
All around to go in various directions
To look for us
If we are on the road at the time
They are going to catch us
And if we are somewhere
Where they cannot see
Then they will not be able to catch us at all
And they won't even find out
They will give up hope
So we will wait there
And then they had a guide whom they needed
Because the road it was difficult
As I told you yesterday
People needed a guide
Those who were not very used to the road
Would have needed a guide
So Subhanallah
Abdullah ibn Uraqiq
He was a man who was a Mushrik
But he was an honest upright guide
And he was a person whom they had trusted
So they hired him
Sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Hired him
And told him the following
Look we want you to meet us
At this cave in three days time
That's it
Subhanallah
So he didn't know too many details
All he knew is
I will meet these people
At this cave three days time
And here are the two camels
Take them with you
And you bring them when you come
So he took the camels
So in the meantime
Ali radiallahu anhu
Was instructed by Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Look tonight
You will sleep in my bedding
Here in my home
And in the morning
You will get up as usual
And I have so many items of value
Which belong to Quraysh
That they have kept with me
And everything is properly recorded
You need to take all these things
And give them back to them
So ever they belong to
So that nothing is left in my home
That belongs to someone else
So that was one of the reasons
Why he was kept there as well
Because if Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Had gone to give back Quraysh their things
They would have blocked him
They would have known he's leaving
So the fact that he still had the items
Some of Quraysh doubted
Thinking that this man couldn't have gone
With all our things
He is very trustworthy
See
So this was also part of the plan
Of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
In the meantime
The daughter of Abu Bakr al-Siddiq radiallahu anhu
Asma binti Abi Bakr
She had made up with her belt
Two little holding
Meaning food holders
And she had
She used to take the food to that cave
When they got to the cave inshallah
We will still get to that
But she was the one who brought the food
Up and down from the cave
To the cave from the home
Now that evening the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Was in his home
And as per the plan of Quraysh
These men had come and encircled the house
Ali radiallahu anhu was in with him
Subhanallah
And they knew the man is inside
They were happy
So as night fell
Some of them were tired
And some of them were this and that
And they were not really concentrating
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Was instructed by Allah to leave the home
When he left the home
According to one of the narrations
He was reading verses of surat Yasin
وَجَعَلْنَا مِن بَيْنِ أَيْدِهِمْ سَدًا وَمِنْ خَلْفِهِمْ سَدًا
فَأَغْشَيْنَاهُمْ فَهُمْ لَا يُبْصِرُونَ
He took a small little hand of dust
And he just threw it
Just as into the air
And by the will of Allah
Subhanahu wa ta'ala
Every one of those young men
Who were waiting to snap at him
Happened to have some grit
In their eyes from the dust he threw
Now the meaning of the verse of surah Yasin
And we have placed a bar before them
And a bar behind them
And we have covered them
So that they cannot see
That's the meaning of the verse
So as he read the verse
And he threw this little handful of dust
They all at one time
Began to rub their eyes
Now you tell me
If you were rubbing your eyes now
How would you know
You know who else is rubbing their eyes
You wouldn't know
So all of them at the same time
Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم stepped out
And he was gone
Out to Abu Bakr الصديق رضي الله عنه's home
And the two of them left for the cave
In no time they were in that cave
Abu Bakr الصديق رضي الله عنه
Went in first in order to look
It was at the top of Mount Thawr
Mount Thawr
I'm sure those who visited Makkah
Have been shown just on the outskirts of
Makkah المكرمة
And when Abu Bakr الصديق رضي الله عنه
Went in to see that there is no snake
Or nothing harmful inside
Thereafter Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم
Went in and the two of them
Camped there
They waited there
In the meantime
It's important to know what happened there
Back at home
Ali رضي الله عنه
Was covered with the clothing of
Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم
And when he got up
And the narrations make mention of
How when he stepped out
They were so excited
Until they found out
This is Ali
Ibn Abi Talib
So where is the man?
The man is not here
Where is he?
I don't know
Perhaps he's gone somewhere
But how could this be?
We were watching all along
And we saw him in here
Subhanallah
And where is the man?
Gone
So news spread in the morning
In the morning
Across Quraysh
That Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم
Is gone
He's gone
What did they do?
They became mental
They became mad
They started preparing little groups of people
Go this way, go search that way
Go search this way
And they heard Abu Bakr is with him
They announced in Quraysh
We will give 100 camels
To anyone who brings this man back
Dead or alive
100 camels
And the same applies to his companion
Abu Bakr الصديق رضي الله عنه
According to some narrations
The 100 camels
For either one of them
And we ask Allah سبحانه وتعالى
To protect us the way
He protected Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم
So Quraysh were very intelligent
Now a point of importance is
Abu Bakr الصديق رضي الله عنه
Had one of his servants
By the name of Amir ibn Fuhairah
And this man, he was a shepherd, servant
And he used to take the sheep to graze
He was instructed that
You must graze your sheep near this cave
And one of the reasons would be
That you see the footsteps
Of these men who walked to the cave
Will be looked at by Quraysh
Once you have sheep walk all over it
It becomes very difficult for them to notice
Look at the planning
Look at the planning so perfect
Subhanallah
From Allah سبحانه وتعالى
So this Amir ibn Fuhairah
He took his sheep
And they walked all over these footsteps
And so on
But Quraysh, they were too intelligent
They had their intelligence
So they were looking all over
Until some sort of signs
Some sort of signs led them to the cave
And this all was a plan of Allah سبحانه وتعالى
For Allah سبحانه وتعالى
To teach us a lesson here today
That Allah سبحانه وتعالى
If He protects you
Wallahi, wallahi
Nobody can harm you
Not at all
And believe me
People can become blinded
That you are standing there
And people can become blinded from your wealth
That they are trying to steal
Although it will be glaring them in their faces
That is if Allah wills
He has done it
And He continues doing it
May Allah protect us
So Rasulullah صلى الله عليه وسلم
In the cave
With Abu Bakr As-Siddiq رضي الله عنه
The two of them were there
And Allah سبحانه وتعالى
Makes mention of what happened
In that particular cave
إلا تنصروه
فقد نصره الله
إذ أخرجه الذين كفو ثاني اثنين
إذ هما في الغار
إذ يقول لصاحبه
لا تحزن إن الله معنا
فأنزل الله سكينته عليه
وأيده بجنود
الله أكبر
Allah says if you are not going to assist
Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم
Allah has helped him in the past
When there were two of them in the cave
And his companion
Who is Abu Bakr As-Siddiq رضي الله عنه
Was told do not fear Allah is with us
Do not fear Allah is with us
And Allah says we sent to them
We sent to them armies
That were not seen
We sent to them armies that were not seen
Allah protected them
Quraish, their members
Had got right to the mouth of the cave
They were quite convinced that this is roughly the track
Where these people are
Because they looked up and down these roads
And pathways going to Madinah
There was no one
They looked in other directions as well
No sign
So this was the only thing
And Abu Bakr As-Siddiq رضي الله عنه
Looks at Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم
He says if these people have to look down
They will see us
If these people have to look properly
And this is when Allah says
That Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم
Was instructed to tell him
لا تحزن
Don't be sad
إِنَّ اللَّهَ مَعَنَ
Allah is with us
So the verse says
فَأَنزَلَ اللَّهُ سَكِينَتَهُ عَلَيْهُ
Allah then sent down the tranquility
And the peace upon him
Upon not only his messenger
Who was already that
But even Abu Bakr As-Siddiq رضي الله عنه
Who was calm and relaxed
Now there is mention made
Of a spider and a dove
There is mention made in the books of history
Not in the books of hadith
I hope you can see the difference between the two
The books of history make mention of a spider
That spun its web in a way
That the people of Quraysh
It is said they asked a question
How can they be in here
If there is a spider web
Because a spider web wouldn't be here already
It would have needed some time
So it shows
You know when you walk into your home
And there's all webs
It means there's been no one there for a while
And the same applies to a nest
Of a little pigeon or dove
But for your information
As for the pigeon or dove
Even the books of history make mention
That the narration is not authentic
And as for the spinning of the web
It is made mention in the books of Seerah
But not in the books of hadith
And the Muhaddithin still say
That it is highly debatable
Although some of the scholars say
No, it is authentic for me and you
Alhamdulillah we surrender and we say
Allah protected them with armies
And Allah's armies include the birds
And the spiders and the angels
And anyone else whom Allah wants
What happened is they were protected
Subhanallah
So Alhamdulillah the Quraysh
Then looked this way that way and turned around
When they turned around and went away
And after some time on the third day
What happened
This man comes with the two camels
By the third day the hunt had been already
You know calmed down
And all the hype of it was all gone
And now this man
He comes with the two camels
And he is ready to pick up Rasulullah
Sallallahu alaihi wasallam
In the meantime for the amount of days
What was happening is the son
Of Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radiallahu anhu
Who was a young boy
Abdullah ibn Abi Bakr
He was tasked with something by his father
His father told him as he was leaving
Listen my son
During the daytime you must walk around by Quraysh
See what they're saying about us
And what's happening
Bring us some news in the night
And this young boy used to actually do that
So this was just to find out what was happening
And to know that these people heading
In the wrong direction and in that direction
And this and that and so on
So then they had given up at a certain point
And then as we mentioned
The daughter of Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radiallahu anhu
Came to help Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
And his father with some food
And this had happened
She used to come quietly walking out
And then she would go and deliver the food
Come back and so on
And this was the group of people
Mainly made up of the family
Of Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radiallahu anhu
When the day the prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
Told him in his home that
I have been permitted to leave
The first thing he said
As-Suhbatu ya Rasoolallah
Can I be your companion or messenger
Sallallahu alaihi wasallam
He said yes indeed
And this is when he became the companion
Of Rasoolallah sallallahu alaihi wasallam
And we believe not only the companion
In his life
But even in the death
He is buried right next to Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radiallahu anhu
The best of those who tread this earth
After the prophets of Allah sallallahu alaihi wasallam
So thereafter they started their journey
And alhamdulillah
The journey was a beautiful journey
Which the guide intelligently took them
On a different route altogether
Not on the normal route
Because he realized these people are going to Medina
Then let me take them on a longer route
On the coast, the coastal road
And this is why today
People can actually choose to use the old road
Which goes via Badr and so on
To go back into Makkah al-Mukarrama from Medina or vice versa
Although the highway is built more or less straight
But when it comes to the old road
It's not even the road which was taken by Rasoolallah sallallahu alaihi wasallam
Because that one was never developed as such later on
It is further in and it follows the coast
So as they were traveling
Some miracles happened which we must make mention
One of the first miracles that had happened
Subhanallah
News had got around everywhere
Quraish had sent their horsemen here and there
Telling everyone 100 camels
100 camels is a big deal
It's like me telling you 100 million dollars
Basically
A large amount of money
And everyone, subhanallah
Was looking out for these people
Because we are going to get 100 camels
100 camels we are going to get
And there was a certain place
Where a man who was a bounty hunter
You know what's a bounty hunter
A person who looks for this type of thing
And then he goes and hunts for those people
And brings them dead or alive
To make the money out of it
His name was Suraka ibn Malik
This Suraka ibn Malik was sitting
Amongst his friends
One comes up and says
You know what
On that particular road on the coast
I'm sure I saw some people
And that must be Muhammad and his companions
And you know
So Suraka heard it
Very sharp, intelligent man
He immediately said
No, no, that's somebody else
I know those people
It's somebody else
It's not them and so on
And the topic died
Soon as that happened
He got up, got his horse and he ran
So he was cheating
He actually knew that yes it might be
But to divert the man who brought the news
And to get the money for himself
And the camels for himself
What did he say?
He said no, no
It's not them
I know it's not them
And then as soon as that man turned around
And everything died down a little bit
This man goes and he
As he is racing with his horse
He's racing with his horse
And he sees them
And he notices
And he notices from amongst them
The Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
Is not looking back
And Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radiallahu anhu
Looks back now and again
And as he sees them
Then his horse trips and drops
And then he gets it up
He gets back up on it
And he starts going again
And the horse has slowed down
And it's like he doesn't want to move
And this is an authentic narration
Subhanallah
Suraqa bin Malik
He makes mention of it later on as well
And what happened is
This man says after some time
When I was about to get to them
I got through some quick sand
And my horse started sinking in the sand
And so I got off the horse
And I managed to take this horse out
With great difficulty
By that time these people
Had gone even further
And I got onto it
And I started going again
And as I'm going
A huge cloud of dust comes up
And some smoke as I couldn't even see
What was happening from the skies
And I told myself
No, these people
I'm never going to reach them
This man is protected
Subhanallah
This is America
And what had happened is
Suraqa bin Malik then yells
He screams in a way that they can hear
He says look I promised not to harm you
And at the same time
I would not like harm from you
I want a guarantee
And you are guaranteed
So they slowed down
They managed to get hold of him
And he came
And they spoke to each other
And he gave them the news
What was the news?
You people are being sought after
There is a hundred camels behind you
I obviously there was now a guarantee
I'm not going to touch you
But what's going to happen?
I'm going to go back
Can you give me a note
To guarantee me and my safety
Because now that I've met you
What if some of your people see me
Whatever it was
Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radiAllahu anhu
Was instructed by the messenger
To write a little note of guarantee
For this particular man
And Suraqa bin Malik
It's reported that thereafter
He went away
This man did not become a Muslim
He saw the miracles
But the day when the Muslims
Returned to Mecca victorious
That's the day he accepted Islam
This Suraqa bin Malik
And then we found out
What happened in his life
And the whole story
He says it himself
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Grant us protection
So Allah protected Muhammad
SallAllahu alayhi wa sallam
In that way
The next miracle that had happened
There was a lady in a place
Known as Qudeid
And her name was Atika bint Khalaf
Also known as Ummu Ma'bad
And there are two narrations
One of them says that
Abu Ma'bad who is the man
The husband was not at home
And the other one says
No he was at home
And the more correct narration
Says he was at home
So what happened is
The Prophet SallAllahu alayhi wa sallam
They stopped at a specific place
Here in Qudeid
And they asked for some food
And some drink and so on
And they were told
Look you know what
We don't have any here
We've only got these sheep
That are here
That do not have much
They don't have any milk
And some of them are pregnant
And so on
They don't have milk
Now up to that point
Rasulullah SallAllahu alayhi wa sallam's
Group
Meaning the group of people
Who were with
The guide
Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radiAllahu anhu
And the Prophet SallAllahu alayhi wa sallam
They were very very careful
Answering questions
When someone asks
Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radiAllahu anhu
Who is the man with you
He would say
He is my guide
My guide meaning spiritual guide
But they would think
The guide of the road
Yet he was Muhammad SallAllahu alayhi wa sallam
Because they wanted to know
Who is this man
And he was obviously
In such a way that
People would not see him
If they did not trust someone
Then they wouldn't unnecessarily
Turn around and so on
Like we heard
What Surah bin Malik says
That this man did not turn
But Abu Bakr radiAllahu anhu
Kept turning every now and again
So at this point
When they stopped for
A little bit of food and drink
Then the Prophet SallAllahu alayhi wa sallam
Spoke
And he says
To Abu Ma'bad
One narration says
Abu Ma'bad was not there
So he spoke to Umm Ma'bad
But we will go with
The more authentic narration
He spoke to Abu Ma'bad
And he says
What about this
Sheet that's there
He says
Look it's dry
There's no milk at all
So Muhammad SallAllahu alayhi wa sallam says
Would you mind
If I try to milk it
So the Rasulullah SallAllahu alayhi wa sallam
Was told
No problem
You can milk it
When it came
He put his hand on the others
He made a dua
For baraka and goodness
And suddenly the others became full
He milked it
So much milk came out
They all drank
The family drank
The people drank
They all drank
They were okay
And when they were finished drinking
He milked it
According to the narration
Once again for a surplus of milk
Subhanallah
And this Abu Ma'bad looks and says
Are you not the man
That Quraish is looking for
You are not the man
Who has reneged from the religion
Of the forefathers
And Rasulullah SallAllahu alayhi wa sallam
Within his heart
He knew
That this person here
Is about to enter
The fold of Islam
So he said
Well, so they say
That I was a renegade
And I did this and that
And I am the man
They are looking for
He says
I bear witness
That you are a prophet
You are the messenger
I have seen
That's it
Subhanallah
Amazing
The other narration says
That he was away
But this happened to his wife
And when his wife told him
What happened
He said
That was the man
And I will follow him
If I can inshallah
But the more correct narration
Says
He immediately said
Can I not join you people
You are going to Madinah
Come, I am coming
I will pack up my things
And myself and wife
Will come with you
And Rasulullah SallAllahu alayhi wa sallam
Told him
No
Wait until the day
You hear about us
When you hear
That we have now come up
Then you can come to
Al-Madinah Al-Munawwara
And true to his word
He did make it there
After some time
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Grant us all goodness
This was another miracle
That Rasulullah SallAllahu alayhi wa sallam
Was granted
Also it is reported
In some correct narrations
That Az-Zubayr ibn al-Awwam
As he was coming back
From his journey
And his travel
Had met this caravan
Of Rasulullah SallAllahu alayhi wa sallam
We say caravan
We speaking of two camels
Perhaps a third one
And he met them
And he gave them
Some clothing and so on
This was Az-Zubayr ibn al-Awwam
Who was a Sahabi
RadhiAllahu anhu
Returning from one of his journeys
Then comes the historic occasion
When the Prophet SallAllahu alayhi wa sallam
On a Monday
Arrived in Quba
The outskirts of Madinah Munawwara
From a distance
Every day the people
Used to come out and look
Where are these people?
Perhaps we'll see them
On that day
They had waited
It was quite a hot day
And they were all gone back
And as the heat
Became very intense
Subhanallah
A Jewish man
Who had climbed up saw
And he says
You know what
There is your man
Your man
You know this
The term used is like
Grandfather has arrived
You know
Your man has arrived here
And so they all got excited
This was Quba
Quba the outskirts of Madinah Munawwara
And mashallah
Tabarakallah
They all came up
And they
Some of them had got their swords
In order to protect
Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Just in case
Something went wrong
And they went up
And they were so happy
They got to Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
They got to Abu Bakr as-Siddiq
Radhiallahu anhu
And being so excited
Welcoming them
Declaring their shahadah
Declaring the words of
You know
Ya Muhammad ya Rasulallah
And so on
These were the people of Quba
Having come out
The muhajireen from amongst them
The ansar from amongst them
Those who were helpers
From Madinah Munawwara
And they had come out
It is reported
This
The arrival
There are many
Conflicting narrations
As per the date
Of arrival
But one of the most
Authentic narration states
That it was a Monday
The 12th of
Rabi' al-awwal
Have you heard that date
Before somewhere
Subhanallah
Coinciding similarly
To similar date
As the birth of
Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
So he arrived in Quba
May Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Bless us all
Grant us goodness
Just to make quick mention
Of where
He spent his time
Whilst he was in Quba
In Quba
He stayed between
14 and 19 days
And he stayed
At the house
Of one of the leaders
Of Banu Amr
Whose name was
Kulthum ibn al-Hidin
And this man
Was one of the leaders
Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Stayed in his home
And the prophet
Sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Met with his people
And lots of goodness
Was spoken
Now he was already
Protected by the people
Of Madinah Munawwara
Obviously
Over and above that
Was the protection
Of Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
But
He did one thing
Quite quickly
And that was
He built a masjid
He built the first masjid
With his own hands
And the companions helped him
And that is masjid Quba
If we go to Madinah Munawwara
We will see it
And they built a simple structure
So that the Muslims could pray
And so that they could gather
And so that they could meet
And so that they could learn
More about their faith
And they built a structure
Which was not a beautiful structure
But the hearts of the people
Who attended were beautiful
Today it's the opposite
Structure is beautiful
Are the hearts of the people
Who attend as beautiful
May Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Grant us guidance
Until we meet again
And may Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
And bless our prophet Muhammad
Glory be to Allah
And praise be to you
We bear witness that there is no god but you
We seek your forgiveness
And we repent to you
Praise be to Allah
The Lord of the worlds
The Merciful, the Merciful
Owner of the Day of Judgment
It is You we worship